guide/getting-started-with-cfengine-build/modules-from-cfengine-build.markdown, before:

---
layout: default
title: Modules from CFEngine Build
published: true
sorting: 20
tags: [guide, getting started, modules]
---

Now that you've installed CFEngine and the tools we need, we can start working with modules from CFEngine Build.
The workflow will look like this:

![](workflow.png)

## Step 0: Creating a new project

Create a folder for you project, for example in your home directory:

```
$ mkdir -p ~/cfengine_project
```

Initialize it:

```
$ cd ~/cfengine_project
$ cfbs init
```

## Step 1: Explore and add modules

The first module you should add is `masterfiles`.
This is the default policy which is included in the CFEngine packages, so it is already running on your hub.
Use this command to add it to your project:

```
$ cfbs add masterfiles
```

At this point, you can go to [build.cfengine.com](https://build.cfengine.com) and find modules you would like to use.
The command to add them is the same as you just ran to add `masterfiles`.
For the purposes of this tutorial, let's add the git module so we can work with git repositories later:

```
$ cfbs add git
```

Additionally, let's add a module to make CFEngine run policy and report collection every minute instead of the default 5 minute interval:

```
$ cfbs add every-minute
```

Finally, let's add a report for whether the OS is supported by the OS vendor:

```
$ cfbs add compliance-report-os-is-vendor-supported
```

## Step 2: Build

Once we are done adding modules, it is time to build them, combining it all into the policy set which will be deployed to our hub:

```
$ cfbs build

Modules:
001 masterfiles                              @ f3a8f65e77428a6ab9d62c34057a7ace6ae54ce9 (Downloaded)
002 library-for-promise-types-in-python      @ c3b7329b240cf7ad062a0a64ee8b607af2cb912a (Downloaded)
003 promise-type-git                         @ c3b7329b240cf7ad062a0a64ee8b607af2cb912a (Downloaded)
004 every-minute                             @ 05bf5e5b1c014018a7b93a524e035c1a21bcffa4 (Downloaded)
005 compliance-report-imports                @ 9d4a1cb1f919454a49baf22469ebc0b1606ae904 (Downloaded)
006 autorun                                  @ c3b7329b240cf7ad062a0a64ee8b607af2cb912a (Downloaded)
007 compliance-report-os-is-vendor-supported @ d9e0aad225535b2b16ba2126e8302f8ffc5e7d38 (Downloaded)

Steps:
001 masterfiles                              : run './prepare.sh -y'
001 masterfiles                              : copy './' 'masterfiles/'
002 library-for-promise-types-in-python      : copy 'cfengine.py' 'masterfiles/modules/promises/'
003 promise-type-git                         : copy 'git.py' 'masterfiles/modules/promises/'
003 promise-type-git                         : append 'enable.cf' 'masterfiles/services/init.cf'
004 every-minute                             : json 'def.json' 'masterfiles/def.json'
005 compliance-report-imports                : copy './compliance-report-imports.cf' 'masterfiles/services/autorun/'
006 autorun                                  : json 'def.json' 'masterfiles/def.json'
007 compliance-report-os-is-vendor-supported : copy './os-is-vendor-supported.json' 'masterfiles/.no-distrib/compliance-report-definitions/os-is-vendor-supported.json'

Generating tarball...

Build complete, ready to deploy 🐿
 -> Directory: out/masterfiles
 -> Tarball:   out/masterfiles.tgz

To install on this machine: sudo cfbs install
To deploy on remote hub(s): cf-remote deploy
```

Importantly, we see that our policy was built successfully, from 7 different modules.
4 of those are modules we added, and the 3 others were added as dependencies.
The output of the build, the policy set, is available in the `out/` directory.
Feel free to look at some of the files in `out/masterfiles/`, if you want to understand how these modules work.

## Step 3: Deploy

Now, let's deploy what we built to the hub:

```
$ cf-remote deploy
```

**Note:** This assumes your hub is saved in `cf-remote`, with the group name _hub_.
We did this in the first part of the series, while installing CFEngine, but if you haven't you can do it like this:

```
$ cf-remote save -H root@192.168.56.2 --role hub --name hub
```

(Replace SSH username and IP with what works on your hub).

## Step 4: Observe

Open your web browser and enter the IP address of your hub in the address bar to go the Mission Portal web UI.
For example:

https://192.168.56.2/

(Log in with username `admin` and password `admin`, or whatever you changed it to when you first logged into your hub).

By clicking on _Reports_ and _Compliance_ we can see the report we added, _OS is vendor supported_:

![](os-is-vendor-supported.gif)

(Reports in CFEngine Mission Portal can be saved as PDF or CSV or scheduled to be sent to your email periodically).

## What's next

Now that you've successfully added modules and seen the results in Mission Portal, you're ready to look for more modules, or explore Mission Portal further.
Here are some examples of modules you might be interested in:

* [Scan and report on potentially vulnerable log4j installations](https://build.cfengine.com/modules/cve-2021-44228-log4j/)
* [Inventory (reporting) data of who can use sudo on each host](https://build.cfengine.com/modules/inventory-sudoers/)
* [Promise type to perform HTTP requests](https://build.cfengine.com/modules/promise-type-http/)

To add more modules, just repeat the commands from steps 1-3, for example:

```
$ cfbs add inventory-sudoers
$ cfbs build
$ cf-remote deploy
```

In the next tutorial we will look more at the reporting and Web UI, called Mission Portal:

[Reporting and Web UI][Reporting and Web UI]

Commit message:

Added video version of getting started part 2
Signed-off-by: Ole Herman Schumacher Elgesem <ole@northern.tech>

guide/getting-started-with-cfengine-build/modules-from-cfengine-build.markdown, after:

---
layout: default
title: Modules from CFEngine Build
published: true
sorting: 20
tags: [guide, getting started, modules]
---

Now that you've installed CFEngine and the tools we need, we can start working with modules from CFEngine Build.
The workflow will look like this:

![](workflow.png)

## Video

There is a video version of this tutorial available on YouTube:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/5V5URRv6SEs" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Step 0: Creating a new project

Create a folder for you project, for example in your home directory:

```
$ mkdir -p ~/cfengine_project
```

Initialize it:

```
$ cd ~/cfengine_project
$ cfbs init
```

## Step 1: Explore and add modules

The first module you should add is `masterfiles`.
This is the default policy which is included in the CFEngine packages, so it is already running on your hub.
Use this command to add it to your project:

```
$ cfbs add masterfiles
```

At this point, you can go to [build.cfengine.com](https://build.cfengine.com) and find modules you would like to use.
The command to add them is the same as you just ran to add `masterfiles`.
For the purposes of this tutorial, let's add the git module so we can work with git repositories later:

```
$ cfbs add git
```

Additionally, let's add a module to make CFEngine run policy and report collection every minute instead of the default 5 minute interval:

```
$ cfbs add every-minute
```

Finally, let's add a report for whether the OS is supported by the OS vendor:

```
$ cfbs add compliance-report-os-is-vendor-supported
```

## Step 2: Build

Once we are done adding modules, it is time to build them, combining it all into the policy set which will be deployed to our hub:

```
$ cfbs build

Modules:
001 masterfiles                              @ f3a8f65e77428a6ab9d62c34057a7ace6ae54ce9 (Downloaded)
002 library-for-promise-types-in-python      @ c3b7329b240cf7ad062a0a64ee8b607af2cb912a (Downloaded)
003 promise-type-git                         @ c3b7329b240cf7ad062a0a64ee8b607af2cb912a (Downloaded)
004 every-minute                             @ 05bf5e5b1c014018a7b93a524e035c1a21bcffa4 (Downloaded)
005 compliance-report-imports                @ 9d4a1cb1f919454a49baf22469ebc0b1606ae904 (Downloaded)
006 autorun                                  @ c3b7329b240cf7ad062a0a64ee8b607af2cb912a (Downloaded)
007 compliance-report-os-is-vendor-supported @ d9e0aad225535b2b16ba2126e8302f8ffc5e7d38 (Downloaded)

Steps:
001 masterfiles                              : run './prepare.sh -y'
001 masterfiles                              : copy './' 'masterfiles/'
002 library-for-promise-types-in-python      : copy 'cfengine.py' 'masterfiles/modules/promises/'
003 promise-type-git                         : copy 'git.py' 'masterfiles/modules/promises/'
003 promise-type-git                         : append 'enable.cf' 'masterfiles/services/init.cf'
004 every-minute                             : json 'def.json' 'masterfiles/def.json'
005 compliance-report-imports                : copy './compliance-report-imports.cf' 'masterfiles/services/autorun/'
006 autorun                                  : json 'def.json' 'masterfiles/def.json'
007 compliance-report-os-is-vendor-supported : copy './os-is-vendor-supported.json' 'masterfiles/.no-distrib/compliance-report-definitions/os-is-vendor-supported.json'

Generating tarball...

Build complete, ready to deploy 🐿
 -> Directory: out/masterfiles
 -> Tarball:   out/masterfiles.tgz

To install on this machine: sudo cfbs install
To deploy on remote hub(s): cf-remote deploy
```

Importantly, we see that our policy was built successfully, from 7 different modules.
4 of those are modules we added, and the 3 others were added as dependencies.
The output of the build, the policy set, is available in the `out/` directory.
Feel free to look at some of the files in `out/masterfiles/`, if you want to understand how these modules work.

## Step 3: Deploy

Now, let's deploy what we built to the hub:

```
$ cf-remote deploy
```

**Note:** This assumes your hub is saved in `cf-remote`, with the group name _hub_.
We did this in the first part of the series, while installing CFEngine, but if you haven't you can do it like this:

```
$ cf-remote save -H root@192.168.56.2 --role hub --name hub
```

(Replace SSH username and IP with what works on your hub).

## Step 4: Observe

Open your web browser and enter the IP address of your hub in the address bar to go the Mission Portal web UI.
For example:

https://192.168.56.2/

(Log in with username `admin` and password `admin`, or whatever you changed it to when you first logged into your hub).

By clicking on _Reports_ and _Compliance_ we can see the report we added, _OS is vendor supported_:

![](os-is-vendor-supported.gif)

(Reports in CFEngine Mission Portal can be saved as PDF or CSV or scheduled to be sent to your email periodically).

## What's next

Now that you've successfully added modules and seen the results in Mission Portal, you're ready to look for more modules, or explore Mission Portal further.
Here are some examples of modules you might be interested in:

* [Scan and report on potentially vulnerable log4j installations](https://build.cfengine.com/modules/cve-2021-44228-log4j/)
* [Inventory (reporting) data of who can use sudo on each host](https://build.cfengine.com/modules/inventory-sudoers/)
* [Promise type to perform HTTP requests](https://build.cfengine.com/modules/promise-type-http/)

To add more modules, just repeat the commands from steps 1-3, for example:

```
$ cfbs add inventory-sudoers
$ cfbs build
$ cf-remote deploy
```

In the next tutorial we will look more at the reporting and Web UI, called Mission Portal:

[Reporting and Web UI][Reporting and Web UI]
